

---- POWER ----



-- Object
To eliminate your opponents by occupying their home base and having
your infantry (either single soldiers or regiments) capture their flag.

-- Game Board
The game board shows four countries, each divided into nine sectors.
Each country also has a head quarters sector (Q) and a RESERVE (located
off the board, behind home-base) (U). Five islands lie between the
countries. Sea lanes border the countries and islands.

-- Pieces
Power Units (Lightning Bolts)
Flag
Megamissle
Destroyers (small ships)
Cruisers (large ships)
Fighters (small planes)
Bombers (large planes)
Tanks (small tanks)
Heavy Tanks {Heavy or Heavies} (large tanks)
Infantry (small soldiers)
Regiments (large soldiers)

-- Movement and Power
PIECE (S) - POWER - PIECE (L) - POWER - MOVES (same for both)
Infantry  - 2     - Regiment  - 20    - 2
Tank      - 3     - Heavy     - 30    - 3
Fighter   - 5     - Bomber    - 25    - 5
Destroyer - 10    - Cruiser   - 50    - 1
Megamissle- * (once to anywhere)



-- PLAY --

-- Starting Up
Select your home base and color (YQ, KQ, AQ, RQ)
The following pieces will be placed in your HQ:
1 Flag
2 Infantry
2 Tanks
2 Fighters
2 Destroyers

-- COMMANDS: Moving and Exchanging
During a round, you are allowed up to five separate commands. These
commands fall into two categories: moving and exchanging. Moving means
moving a playing piece from one sector to another. Exchanging means
turning in playing pieces or Power Units for new playing pieces.

-- Moving Infantry and Regiments.
Infantry and Regiments (soldiers) can only move two sectors (or less)
in the same round and only through sectors containing land. Infantry
travel from one country to another by stopping on island sectors (N, S,
W, E, X) that lie between countries. When Infantry enter an island or a
home base, they cannot move any farther during that round, even if they
have a movement count remaining. They must wait until the next round to
move again.

-- Moving Tanks and Heavy Tanks.
Tanks can move three sectors (or less) in the same round. Like
Infantry, they can only travel through sectors containing land, and
they must stop on islands to get from one country to another. Also like
Infantry, Tanks cannot enter and exit an island or home base in the
same round, even if they have movement counts remaining. They must wait
until the next round to move on.

-- Moving Fighters and Bombers.
Fighters and Bombers can move five sectors (or less) in the same round,
but they cannot fly over sea lanes (L01 through L12). Planes cannot
enter and leave a headquarters sector in the same round, but they can
pass over island sectors without stopping.

-- Moving Destroyers and Cruisers.
Destroyers and Cruisers have a movement allowance of one, and they are
restricted to sectors containing water. They can sail into a country's
beach sectors, home-bases, and island sectors, but they cannot travel
diagonally across countries.

-- Moving Megamissiles.
A Megamissile can only be used once, but it can be sent into any sector
you want, including a home-base or RESERVE sector. It can even be
directed to the same sector it was launched from.

-- Exchanging Power Units for small playing pieces.
Power Units are used to "buy" additional small playing pieces. The
"cost" of a piece is the same as its power value; you can exchange two
Power Units for a new Infantry, ten Power Units for a new Destroyer,
etc.

-- Exchanging three small playing pieces for one large piece.
When you have collected three small playing pieces of the same type in
the same sector, you may exchange them for a large piece of the same
type. The large piece is placed in the same sector the small pieces
were in. You can only exchange small playing pieces for the same type
of large playing piece (Fighters for a Bomber, Destroyers for a
Cruiser, etc.), except the Megamissile.

-- Exchanging for a Megamissile.
Megamissiles can be exchanged for a combination of existing playing
pieces and Power Units. For example, you can exchange a Cruiser (power
value = 50), a Heavy Tank (power value = 30), a Destroyer (power value
= 10), and 10 Power Units for a Megamissile. The Megamissile is placed
in the sector where all the pieces were. No "change" is given when you
exchange for a Megamissile; power value overages are lost.


-- Rules to follow when planning your commands:

* You may have more than one of your pieces occupying the same sector.

* You may move in any direction you want, including diagonally.

* Pieces in RESERVE can only move to the HQ sector. Pieces may never
move back into RESERVE.

* Pieces cannot be moved more than once in a round. For example, you
cannot move a ship from N to L04 and then from L04 to X in the same
round.

* Pieces can be moved and then exchanged in the same round (which
counts as two commands). For example, you can move a Fighter into a
sector that already has two other Fighters in it and then exchange them
for a Bomber. (You cannot move the Bomber, however, until the next
round.)

* Pieces may be exchanged more than once in a round. For example, you
may exchange two Power Units in RESERVE for an Infantry. You may now
exchange the new Infantry, along with the two other Infantry pieces you
have in RESERVE, for a Regiment.

* Pieces cannot move in the same round after they have been exchanged.
There are two exceptions : pieces can be exchanged in RESERVE and then
moved into home base (two commands), and Megamissiles can be exchanged
and then launched in the same round (also two commands).


-- MOVING --

When you're writing your commands, you must use the following notations
for the pieces:
I - Infantry
T - Tank
F - Fighter
D - Destroyer
G - Regiment
H - Heavy Tank (Heavy)
B - Bomber
C - Cruiser
P - Power Unit (Power or Point)
M - Megamissile (Mega)


-- MOVES
(see game_codes.txt)

You are required to issue at least one command In each round. If you
fail to move (or exchange), you must give up one Power Unit. If you
don't have a Power Unit, you must exchange the playing piece with the
lowest power value (from anywhere on the board) for its equivalent in
Power Units (or, in the case where your lowest piece is large, you
exchange it for two smaller pieces plus Power Units). The extra Power
Units (and small pieces, if any) are placed in your RESERVE, not back
in the sector they came from.


-- Implementing Your Commands
The next stage is carried out in the following order:
1. Move and Exchange Pieces.
Illegal commands are cancelled. For example, if you mistakenly planned
to move a Tank from Q to X (a four-sector move), the Tank would stay in
Q and you would "lose" that command.

2. Resolve Conflicts.
Conflict is resolved only after all commands have been completed. When
a sector is occupied by more than one player, the power values of the
pieces in the conflicted sector are calculated. The player with the
highest total power value wins the sector and captures all the opposing
pieces (even if two other players, with lesser power values, are tied).


Rules for resolving ties: (BOUNCE)

* Pieces belonging to the tied players must retreat to the sectors they
came from.

* Pieces that were already in the tied sector at the beginning of the
round do not retreat; they stay in the tied sector.

* Pieces that were traded in the sector from pieces that were not 
originally in the sector are traded back into the original pieces and 
the original pieces must retreat to the sectors they came from.

* If a piece retreats to a sector that is occupied by another player,
this conflict is resolved following ordinary conflict resolution rules.

* Pieces only retreat once in a round; if a new tie exists in the
sector your piece retreats to, only your opponent retreats.

* If there are three players in a conflicted sector and if the two
players with the highest power values are tied, the tied players
retreat and the remaining player's pieces stay in the sector.

* If there are four players in a sector and the two players with the
highest power values are tied, they retreat and the two remaining
players battle it out. (If they are tied, they retreat as well.)

* You may attack and occupy your opponent's home base, but you cannot
capture the flag unless you have an Infantry or Regiment piece among
your forces.


Rules for resolving conflicts with Megamissiles:

* A Megamissile's power value only counts in battle when it is
launched. A Megamissile has no defensive power, so if one is sitting in
a sector by itself, for example, any opposing piece can conquer it. If
you have a Megamissile sitting in a sector with your Bomber and if the
sector is attacked by a Cruiser, the Cruiser wins the sector and
captures both your Bomber and your Megamissile.

* Captured Megamissiles go into your RESERVE (and can be launched only
from there).

* Megamissiles cannot be moved (unless captured); they can only be
launched.

* When a Megamissile is launched into a sector, all forces in the
sector are completely destroyed, including any of your own forces.
Since only debris remains, all pieces that were in the sector
(including the Megamissile) are removed from the board and the sector
is unoccupied. If the sector is a home base, the flag remains standing
in the sector and is not captured.

* If opposing Megamissile are launched into the same sector, they are
all destroyed -- along with all other forces in the sector -- and the
sector is then unoccupied.


ALL Captured pieces go into your RESERVE. They are now part of your
armed forces.  They will take on your color when captured.

3. Distribute Power Units.
You get one Power Unit for each opponent's country (0-8) you occupy,
regardless of how many sectors you occupy in the country or how many
pieces you have. The maximum number of Power Units you can get in a
round is three. You may not receive a Power Unit for a country without
a flag; an island; a sea lane; or your own country. Power Units are
placed in your RESERVE, where they stay until they are exchanged.

4. Resolve Captured Flags.
After all other conflicts are resolved and all Power Units are
distributed, then and only then, will one of your soldiers capture your
opponent's flag. When that happens, you take possession of all the
conquered player's remaining pieces and Power Units, including anything
won during this round, and the conquered player is now out of the game.
All captured pieces are placed in your RESERVE.

5. Simultaneous Flag Captures.
If two or more opposing players capture each other's flags in the same
turn (i.e. Red captures Black and Black captures Red), the pieces for
all the players involved in the simultaneous flag capture are removed
from the board.  If there are no remaining players after this occurs,
the game ends in a draw.


-- WINNING THE GAME --

You win Power when you have conquered the world by capturing the
flag of your last remaining opponent. REMEMBER: There must be an
Infantry or Regiment piece among the pieces that capture the flag.


-- TWO-PLAYER GAME --

When two people are playing, each person plays two countries (and two
sets of pieces) which are next to each other on the board. You win when
you capture both your opponent's flags.

Special rules you should follow in the two-player game:

* You have ten commands for each round: five for each color.

* You may combine your colors to capture a sector, since you count the
total of both colors when determining the winner. Both forces of the
winning player remain in the sector.

* Captured pieces go into the armed forces of the color that won the
conflict. You may not switch pieces between the two colors you are
playing.

* If you have an equal force of both colors in a sector that you have
captured from your opponents, you may choose which color gets the
conquered pieces. You may not split the conquered pieces between the
two colors.


-- THREE-PLAYER GAME --

In a three-player game, the fourth country is considered "mercenary".
The mercenary force is directed by the three active players. Here are
the rules to follow:

* Any of the three players can move mercenary pieces. If two or three
players try to move the same piece, the moves cancel each other out and
the piece stays where it is.

* You may devote as many of your five commands to moving and exchanging
mercenary pieces as you want.

* You may deliberately move a mercenary piece so that your forces can
capture it.

* If all the mercenary's pieces have been captured but its flag is
still standing, each player occupying a sector of the mercenary country
will get a Power Unit.

* When you capture mercenary pieces, they are added to your forces,
following the same procedure used when you capture any enemy piece.

* When a mercenary captures pieces they are added to its RESERVE, along
with any Power Units won.

* When you capture the mercenary flag, the mercenary country is out of
play, and you take possession of all the mercenary's remaining pieces
and Power Units.


-- END --
